Logging 6.0 Initial Docs (#80999)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/log6x-input-spec-filter-namespace-container.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * observability/logging/logging-6.0/log6x-clf.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="log6x-input-spec-filter-namespace-container_{context}"]
= Filtering application logs at input by including or excluding the namespace or container name

You can include or exclude the application logs based on the namespace and container name by using the `input` selector.

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the {clo}.
* You have administrator permissions.
* You have created a `ClusterLogForwarder` custom resource (CR).

> * You must have a `serviceAccount` in the same namespace in which you create the `ClusterLogForwarder`. Additionally, for this `ClusterLogForwarder` you must have the `collect-audit-logs`, `collect-application-logs`, and `collect-infrastructure-logs` cluster roles. For more information see link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.16/observability/logging/log_collection_forwarding/log-forwarding.html#log-collection-rbac-permissions_log-forwarding[Authorizing log collection RBAC permissions].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You must have a `serviceAccount` in the same namespace in which you create the `ClusterLogForwarder`. Additionally, for this `ClusterLogForwarder` you must have the `collect-audit-logs`, `collect-application-logs`, and `collect-infrastructure-logs` cluster roles. For more information see the "Additional resources".
```

Reviewer: same as previous comments about this

.Procedure

. Add a configuration to include or exclude the namespace and container names in the `ClusterLogForwarder` CR.
+
The following example shows how to configure the `ClusterLogForwarder` CR to include or exclude namespaces and container names:
+
.Example `ClusterLogForwarder` CR
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: observability.openshift.io/v1
kind: ClusterLogForwarder
# ...
spec:
  serviceAccount:
    name: <service_account_name>
  inputs:
    - name: mylogs
      application:
        includes:
          - namespace: "my-project" # <1>
            container: "my-container" # <2>
        excludes:
          - container: "other-container*" # <3>
            namespace: "other-namespace" # <4>
# ...
----
<1> Specifies that the logs are only collected from these namespaces.
<2> Specifies that the logs are only collected from these containers.
<3> Specifies the pattern of namespaces to ignore when collecting the logs.
<4> Specifies the set of containers to ignore when collecting the logs.
+
[NOTE]
====

> The `excludes` takes precedence over `includes`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `excludes` field takes precedence over the `includes` field.
```
